
this is the story of react and virtual DOM once upon a time there was a view
he was very happy painting the DOM 
sometimes the model would give some nice data to paint he knew really well how
to paint a UI given all the data a username the points and a colored shape
piece of cake and fun too.
but then the model sent the view an updated username he had to know how to change
his painting to show the new username to do that he had to keep track of a 
username div.username he dutifully updated the DOM directly then the model sent 
to view another update this time it was the points:72 the view added another
update rule and started tracking the points dv.points

again he updated  the DOM in place. next the model sent the view a new colored
if you remembered yet anoterh update rule and kept track of another DOM
then he changed the color right there on the DOM.

the view thought that might be the end of the upate rules but they just kept 
adding up he had to keep track of so much  and sometimes the order
of updates events mattered it was all too much after a while he gave up he 
couldn't continue.


but then the view met a friend, the friend was called react.
they worked together to paint the DOM

the model would have the view a complete piece of data the view knew how to 
render this username points and colored shape 

he would draw a quick but accurate sketch then he would bring it to react who
would scan it react had very accurate and fast memory banks it could remember
exactly what was already painted  in the REAL DOM

new painting at first the DOM was empty so it knew to paint the whole thing
 it could paint very fast because it was a robot then whenever the data 
 may have changed the model gave the view all the data again 

 the view like this because he was really good at sketching an entire picture
 but not every good at remembering all of those DOM nodes when he was done he 
 gave it to react who scanned it difference detected blue circle is now red.

 it quickly made a short list of all of the differences that it painted each
 and every difference but no more when the model would bring him data the view
 didn't really know what was on the REAL DOM.
 
 and he didn't want to know he just sketched the picture as it was supposed to
 look then passed it to react react would quickly figure out that there were
 no differences no differences 
 everying was already painted correctly the view was so happy with his new
 friend react

 what makes React so fast ?

 let's say we have a DOM tree like i just shown you the example okay

 so what react will do is the react will make two copies of it 

 and we'll call it VIRTUAL DOM  

 so this will be a virtual representation of the DOM it would create two copies
 of it
 now how does it actually work 
 so whenever anything changes in your application it gets rerender to the virtual
 representation of the DOM 
 which means this one so it made one copy so it made two copies and whenever 
 anything changes it will go ahead and render all the changes to VIRTUAL
 DOM representation of the one of the copies and then what it's going to do is 
 going to compare it with the other copy it's not going to compare it with 
REAL DOM

to compare with other copy of the virtual DOM and it will isolate that change
so let's this part has changed okay 

and it's going to update the REAL DOM with that change 


why is react fast ?

we know they are reading from and writing to the DOM is slow compared to reading
or writing from a javascript object

now virtual dom is a javascript object so react never reads from the REAL DOM
what it does is it interacts with the virtual DOM and when it sees the change it
goes ahead updates the REAL DOM


what is react Virtual DOM ?

A javascript object that is a "virtual" representation of the real DOM.



 “virtual”, representation of a UI is kept in memory and
 synced with the “real” DOM by a library such as ReactDOM. 

By using virtual DOM, we can find out what is changed and with that, 
we can apply only those changes to real DOM instead of replacing entire DOM.

What is real dom in react JS?

ReactJS does not update the real DOM directly but it updates the Virtual DOM.

what is reactjs?
React. js is an open-source JavaScript library that is used for building
user interfaces specifically for single-page applications.